OUTFRONT now,
major Israeli
Major Ben Wall houses
the Israel Defense Forces.
Spokesperson A major,
thank you so much for joining us,
first of all.
What's the
latest on the ground right now?
Thank you, Wolf.
The situation
now is that we have secured the South.
We no longer have hundreds of terrorists
streaming across the border
trying to kill our civilians.
We still have forces
that are going house by house,
making sure that none of them are left.
Hundreds streamed across the border.
Two days ago,
entered into more
than 20 towns and cities.
So our forces are still going house
by house
to make sure that none of them are left.
At the same time, as your viewers know,
we are undergoing
continuous rocket fire
into our cities, indiscriminate.
And that's the current situation.
So is it true
that Israel is now in full control
of all of its land at this hour?
Yes, that is correct.
We have fortified the border
fence on Gaza as well.
We have strained forces down there
and they are working to make sure
that the entire south is safe and secure.
Prime Minister Netanyahu,
as you well know, said today
that the Israeli airstrikes in Gaza,
in his words, are only the beginning.
Are we looking right now at a ground war
here as well?
Well, Hamas's attacks are continuing.
The rocket fire is continuous.
I'm sitting here in Tel Aviv
at my house in Tel Aviv.
My children are continuously going
from upstairs down to the basement
to the bomb shelter.
Sirens all throughout Israel.
So the IDF has been directed
by the government to stop those attacks.
And we'll do
what's needed in order
to stop those attacks
and make sure that Hamas doesn't
have the capability to renew them.
So you're clearly leaving open
the possibility
of a major Israeli ground invasion into
Gaza to deal with that.
The IDF
has many capabilities
and we are going to deploy them all
in order
to stop Hamas's ability
to keep attacking our civilians.
As you know, major Hamas is saying
it will start executing
the civilian hostages
taken from Israel into Gaza
and broadcasting it
if Israel targets
people in Gaza without warning.
Will that change Israel's response
at all?
Well, that shouldn't surprise anyone.
Hamas's war here is a war on civilians.
It started with a massacre of women,
children, elderly, entire families.
They kidnaped tens of
families and people
and young people, toddlers, elderly women
are there continuously
firing rockets at our civilians.
And at the same time,
they're hiding behind their civilians
in Gaza
to try and avoid attack from us
and cause more civilian casualties.
So it's not surprising
that they would say something like that.
And our priority is to make sure
that Hamas cannot carry
any of that out
and cannot continue attacking us.
Do you believe, Major,
that some of the hostages
may already be dead?
I don't have the
information to give you that. Now.
It's also for operational reasons.
But obviously, our highest priority
is to protect our people at home
and also protect those people in Gaza.
And that's
what our forces are doing in the land,
sea and air.
Major Ben Wall,
House of the Israeli
Defense Force and spokesperson,
thanks very much for joining us.
Thank you.
And the war has tragically hit
very close to home for my next guest,
a man
who has been on our network
many times over the years.
Mark is the former U.S.
ambassador to Morocco, former White House
adviser on Middle East policy.
As well,
he just announced the death
of his nephew,
Elie Ginsburg, a lieutenant commander
for Israel.
Ambassador,
thanks so much for joining us.
You and I have known each other
for many years.
We are so, so sorry for the loss.
This your loss this evening.
What do you know so far
about what happened to your nephew?
Well, Elie
was a lieutenant commander
and a Navy SEAL in Israel,
and he had just retired from serving
as an operational commander
for Mossad three weeks ago
and was called up
to lead his unit into Kibbutz
Rai, where the music festival
was taking place to rescue hostages
that were being held by Hamas.
And Brian, one of the efforts to
break down
one of the apartment buildings.
He was shot and killed
by a Hamas terrorist.
I found that out for my sister
in law this morning.
I'm here in Morocco doing earth
relief work.
So it's had
been a terrible day for my family and I.
Our hearts go out to you, of course.
Give us a little bit
more about your nephew, Ambassador.
What was he like?
Oh, Elie.
He was.
He was the
oldest of my three
nephews who was raised on a kibbutz
in this government.
My brother Mike
had been killed up there in 2006,
so Elie had lost his father to Hezbollah
and a Hezbollah attack in the war.
And I know he was raised there,
someone dedicated to Israel's
military prowess.
He I mean, the fact that he became
not only a Navy SEAL,
but also
the lieutenant commander
for the Navy SEALs
and then trained in the United States
at the U.S.
Naval Academy.
And
in order to
develop his his skills to train Israelis
and in special commando operations.
I mean, he just worked in the last year.
Right. Pretty secret, Wolf.
But for those of us
who and I particularly was his
I guess, substitute father,
we were so proud of him.
He leaves a beautiful wife in a kibbutz
and four children,
as well as two brothers
and my sister in law.
And we're all morning
I can't make it,
unfortunately, to the funeral tomorrow
because the flights
are extraordinarily hard.
But I'll make it to Israel
to be with my family as soon as I can.
And when you do, please
pass along our deepest,
deepest condolences to your family.
As you know, the Israeli prime minister,
Benjamin Netanyahu, has warned
there will be difficult days ahead
and that Israel will go on offense
against Hamas.
In his words, like never before.
What do you think that looks like
specifically over
the next 24 to 48 hours?
Well, I've I've listened to both you
and I know
I've spent an enormous amount of time
in Israel as well as in Gaza.
I've watched the successive efforts
by Israel to try to quell Hamas.
But I'll tell you, Wolf, my biggest fear,
based on the fact
that my family lives
up on Kibbutz Maccabi,
I'm on the Lebanese border,
is that diabolically, given my own view
and hatred for Hezbollah and Hamas,
it's very conceivable
that part of the scheme here
directed by Iran
is to exhaust Israel's
supply of Iron Dome missiles,
because
Hezbollah, as you well know,
Wolf, and you're an expert on this,
if if Hamas fire 2000 to 3000 missiles
at Israel in a matter of two days, Hamas,
Hezbollah has 150,000 guided missiles
and no Iron Dome system
that Israel currently has
and is already badly depleted
can withstand that type of attack.
It's a serious, very serious situation,
as I continue
to say,
and I hope I'm wrong,
this war is only just beginning.
Ambassador Mark Ginsberg,
our deepest, deepest condolences
to you and your family.
Thank you very much for joining us.